You know, for one that listens to a lot
of security podcasts, I can tell you
that the one thing that gets repeated
all the time is don't be the department
of no. Like do the be the department of
yes, but so that that's really what I
try to do. I say, okay, fine. That's a
business requirement. This is your own
personal need. You you have some urgency
around some of the things that you want
to do as well. So, we're not here to
stop you. We're here to support you. And
in order to support you, we need to be
able to also follow a certain process
that make sure that you're secure in
what you're doing. Um, at the end of the
day, it is your accountability, your
responsibility towards the organization
to make sure that you are not the
conduit to an attack and for that we are
here to help you achieve that. And as
soon as you put on put that message that
it's their accountability, their
responsibility, we're there to support
them. I think the story changes there.
They typically would come to you for
help. They would come to you for advice,
which is what we try to to give.
Aiar, welcome to the human zero day. So
glad to have you with us. How are you?
>> I'm doing all right. Late on a Thursday
night, almost the end of the week here.
So ready to do this as the last thing on
my work week.
>> Awesome. Great. Well, this is not going
to be work. This is going to be fun and
we're going to work hard and play hard
and um really excited for this AI
because we've been talking offline quite
a bit about the human zero day and the
human vulnerabilities. This show is all
about the the human zero day, which is
effectively the way that attackers
leverage humans as as a zero day victims
to new social engineering attacks,
fishing attacks. Um, you know, we've
we're we're spending so much time and
energy and effort protecting the core
assets, the crown jewels of our
organizations, of our critical
infrastructure. And at the end of the
day, we have humans in the front line,
and we have lots of them. It's still to
until today humans are what drive the
organization. Maybe in a few years
that'll change to AI agents and then
we'll have different problems but for
now the brain is a is a a vulnerable
aspect and so I'm really happy to have
you here AI today. You're the global
chief information security officer of
Boltte. Um and um I I want to get
started a little bit hearing your own
journey getting into security, getting
into this concept called the chief
information security officer and what
that means to you.
>> Well, I I actually started my journey I
don't even know how many years ago. Um
started with it before security was a
thing. Um my first job was actually even
not it. I used to do technical support
for something called Word Perfect. If
anybody has ever heard of it, it's it
was um the main word processor before
Word was a popular word processor. Even
before Windows was popular back in the
good old those days and I I ran
technical support um and my journey led
me to a company that you may know called
Noville. Noville was um networking
company. I was doing technical support
there. Um did a bunch of certifications
which led me to IT management positions
which I ran for quite some time. All of
that actually happened in Australia in
Sydney and um I in fact um was there I
was born in Israel but I moved to
Australia with my parents and that's
when you know I finished um high school
and university there. I did computer
science at the time. Um in Australia
unlike other locations like say Israel
or even um even um California there's
not a lot of R&D. It's mostly around
finance um technical hubs for support.
So that's what I really um was um
involved with even though I did computer
science which is all about programming.
So I I really didn't do a lot um with my
degree to some extent. Um for those of
you that are watching that do computer
science degrees, don't fret. I'm sure
there's lots of usage of it. Um but at
the end of the day, it kind of led me
down the path of IT management. So I was
an IT manager for quite a number of
years. Um, I ran IT departments in
Australia and then I actually moved back
to Israel. I met my wife here and I
moved back to Israel. I ran IT I was the
IT manager for Zoom Info if um you know
the company. Um, funny story that's
actually my uncle started that company
back in the US and um he wanted to move
back to Israel and he offered me a job
um a little comp company family
connections there. So he offered me a
job in Israel and I moved back um for
that job and I met my wife here and um I
was doing that job probably until 2008
and then I ended up going into another
IT management position at a company
called Bolt. Um so um Bolt and Bolt
sound very similar and the fact is that
Bolt was the predecessor to Bolt um had
lots of um US companies as our customers
and mostly around the insurance
industry. So Introtech is basically what
we do um I was running it and then um
you know in in IT it's all about
security at the end of the day. Um even
before it was called security we were
doing security um you know 30 years ago
or so. Um but I was ended up juggling it
security at some point also DevOps and
at some point I said it's it's probably
too much and it's also a conflict of
interest in a way. So what we decided to
do is we decided to set up different
functions for those different areas of
the business. So I took over security um
completely I became the CISO for the
company even though before that I was
kind of head of IT, head of security,
head of DevOps. Um so I took on the CISO
title and ultimately um we had we
brought in new people to run it, new
people to run DevOps and I became a
full-time CISO which has been fun ever
since. Um during that time um the
company that I worked for Bolt was
acquired and ultimately now work for a
company called Boltech which is in fact
a a parent company for both. We're a
large organization. We're about 2,000
people spread across something like 40
different countries. So, it's a
different um different environment to
you know what what I was doing and used
to beforehand. But, um it's a nice and
it's a challenge. So,
>> I love it. Okay. So, so huge huge
transitions and progressions and
evolutions. Um 2,000 people is a lot of
people. This show is all about people
and um looking from the side just feels
like the the importance of being on top
of the attack vectors that could that
could impact an organization those are
quite critical and and what I'd like to
start with is is hear a little bit from
you how how do you as CISO of a large
organization how do you even assess what
to work on you know what you know you
have so many different things to do so
many different things to accomplish
you came from a very hands-on approach
in it. So you you know the the nuts and
bolts dependent on to to on what needs
to get done. How do you then compromise
your own time, energy and resources on
identifying here is where I want to put
my energy right now.
>> So some of it is handed to you. So we do
internal audits. We do we have customers
that come to us um with certain
requirements. So in a way these are
requirements that you have to follow.
You have some regulations especially in
insure techch um a lot of countries
around the world they both have um
privacy as well as security requirements
nowadays. So that's kind of a given you
have to do those things and that's
that's an easy prioritization task. Um
but there's also a lot of awareness that
I have to continue um educating myself
on as well as um our staff. So, I'm an
avid listener of podcast. Like, when
every every available moment, you'll
probably find me with a with an um
something stuck in my ear. My wife
doesn't like it very much, but you know,
it's the way it is. Um but but
ultimately, it and I guess that's one of
the things that really attracted me to
security and previously to it. It's such
a changing environment and everything is
so fluid and technology changes so
rapidly that you have to keep up with
the latest and also keep up with the
latest risks and threats that are out
there. And and one of the podcasts I
listen to is actually just on on the
human factor. It's called um I forgot
what it's called now. It will come to me
in a minute. Um I think it's called um
actually it will come to me. I don't
want to misspeak. So at any rate um
humans is certainly one of the things
that that um are the vector for a lot of
attackers and it's not just at the
business. A lot of those podcasts and
and things that you learn about are to
do with attacks around people at home or
people that are outside your regular
channels which is you know speaking with
Michael previously one of the things
that we keep saying is that the channel
is not only you know what comes into
your your business because you can
protect that but you know what comes
into your home your Gmail your WhatsApp
your SMS and your even your your
telephone. So, you know, a common vector
nowadays is getting phone calls um day
in and day out from attackers trying to
scheme you out of out of money. And a
lot of the attacks we're seeing in the
business as well don't necessarily start
from from a business channel. They start
from a different channel and they they
kind of transition over to that other
one. So, so effectively prioritizing and
learning about the different attacks has
to do with learning what's other and
also thinking about what are the risks
that are specific to our organization
and where we are in the world and the
business that we're in. So it's a jaring
act and prioritization is always a
difficult and and engaging task but it's
something that you know almost have to
think about
>> and and so how does one go about even
thinking in the context of one's
organization and it's not necessarily
both this is true for any organization.
How does one go about thinking through
the ways in which um a specific
organization may be susceptible to these
attacks? Because what it seems to me is
that there's so many different things
that could happen with humans and social
engineering and fishing and ultimately
there's the crown jewels of the
organization and things that it really
needs to protect. How do how how do how
do you go about identifying these are
the critical process for a given
organization and do you think those are
always going to be the same critical
process across let's say the fortune
2000 or are those going to be different
for every organization
you know at the end of the day I think a
very high percentage I don't know what
the number would be but very high
percentage will be fairly generic they
will be fairly similar across different
organizations because people are people
everywhere and they will always be
attracted to the same scams so to speak
and and I think you know if you're in a
certain business obviously if you're a
successful company and there's
potentially large budgets that you can
actually impact then it will be more
attractive for for um some of the um
attackers out there but the end of the
day even smaller organizations
they're even more susceptible because um
they may not have the relevant processes
in place they may not have all the
checks and balances that larger
organizations have so in a way I feel
lucky in a big organization nowadays
where you do have to go through a
certain bureaucratic processes to make
sure that you don't fall victim to those
things. Um when when before Boltech was
in place and we had Bolt were a smaller
organization you know people could just
go in and sign their own $5,000 checks
and nobody would actually um pay any
attention to it. and that's that's
actually a more attractive target for
some of the attackers out there. So I
think at the end of the day it really
again going back to the human factor it
really depends on the type of person
that you are your background as well as
um the country and the environment that
you're in. Certainly different cultures
and different locations would have
different types of of attack vectors and
different types of impacts but but
ultimately you know thinking about us as
an organization what we always try to do
is always try to go back to our
processes and procedures. So e even if
someone is susceptible to to those those
types of attacks really the only the
only foolproof solution that we've ever
come up with is you know go back to
processes because everybody is
susceptible everybody can fall victim to
those things even myself
>> right and I think that that speaks also
to the topic of of the series you know
the zero day of humans because naturally
you have to assume that there will
always be another way and another
complexity that's added to to the
sophistication of the attack which we
will fall for. Right? So even as we even
as we go and uh and develop these
monitoring and defensive mechanisms,
there will always be a new generation of
attack and the attackers will inevitably
be a step ahead of the game. It reminds
me of the catch me if you can Frank
Abigail, right? and then and and the the
the ingenuity and the creativity that
stems there. So how do you so so what
does that actually mean to go and look
at processes that are that would be more
of a bulletproof solution rather than
than the the traditional antivirus
monitoring and defensive solutions here.
>> Yeah. So on the technical fronts you can
certainly implement technical controls
that can resist to a certain degree
those types of attacks. they they will
go in and they will do some statistical
analysis and some AI and and this and
that. So I think you know they have a
very high degree of success and
attackers know that so they try
different things. They always go for the
weakest link which is you know your
personal again as I mentioned your your
personal channels your WhatsApp your SMS
your personal Gmail account or or other
ways that they can reach out to you. Um
and and also uh I believe that really
like you said attacks are getting better
and better. They where you know maybe up
to 2 years ago before chat GPT we told
people you know watch out for spelling
mistakes and watch out for um
grammatical errors things like that.
That's no longer the case. Um anything
looks legitimate and anything makes
sense to people when you read it and
when you listen to people. So ultimately
our message to everybody in the
organization is that however um however
legitimate you think a request is if it
doesn't go through the process you're
not allowed to do it and and also always
and I I feel in a way um sorry to even
say that and and it's some something
that saddens me um personally is the
fact that we can no longer trust
anything. You always have to suspic to
be suspicious of everyone and anything.
And and to me that's that's a sad truth,
but that's what we're telling people,
you know, be suspicious of everything.
Um what whatever you see, don't trust
it. It could be fake. It could be
somebody trying to scam you. It may not
be today, maybe tomorrow, maybe the next
day that they come up with the ultimate
um scamming result. So go back to
process you know get approval get
another person to have a look at it
which is also something that we keep
telling people don't don't just um do
things yourself even if you think that
you have done the wrong thing get
somebody else to have a look at it give
a second opinion because it's it's so
difficult and again I I have so many
personal family stories about people in
my own close circle that fall victim to
those things that I know that there's no
shame in it And and ultimately there's
only one solution which is you know
follow process and get another opinion.
>> And do you feel that that organizations
today have the tools that they need in
order to identify these processes,
evaluate them and and and not just until
now as the threats evolve so quickly um
and every day there's new forms of
threats, new attack vectors, new
creativity. Do you believe that you what
is what is the nature today of doing
that work and and what needs to be done
to improve on that?
>> That that's a good question. The the you
know AI is obviously the latest and
greatest in both both things that we
could use for our benefit as well as um
threats and risks that are now at our
door
and keeping up with that a starts with
awareness. again telling people that
unfortunately you don't you don't really
can trust things that you see and look
look legitimate to you. So awareness is
number one. Um nothing to do with
technology. Um just just the mere fact
that um you have to be weary and be
careful all the time. Um, but from a
technology perspective,
you know, I'm looking at the 2025 budget
in front of me and I'm thinking, should
I be investing in AI tools to to address
some of the risks? To some extent, yes,
we should be starting to look at what's
out there and what is available. whether
we should go full um you know full scale
into making AI as our primary line of
defense for tooling it's it's probably a
bit early because there things just
change so rapidly certainly there are
many vectors that you can look at
obviously deep tech is a is a big one
but also things like data leakage um
people using chpt and using other AI
tools that are even built in now so you
look at Adobe Acrobat that now has an AI
capability. You don't even suspect
that's where your leakage is going to
come from and and it's something that we
definitely have to start thinking about.
Again, for for me the foundational items
are still there and we still need to
address them, but we need to start
understanding what are the typical risks
that we need to look at with AI and
certainly the ones that we need to start
investigating or investing in as an
organization.
Absolutely. And and if we go a little
bit into the world that you've been
living in over the last decade in the
context of insurance, financial systems
and and if we every organization is has
is different in many capacities, but I
think that and what I'm observing is
that insurance organizations and and
financial organizations in general, they
have different sets of of risks and and
and and natures of critical importance.
So if we look at the insurance space for
example, where does the ele where does
the human element lie there and and
where does that meet you as a security
professional?
>> Right. So there's two elements there.
One one is fraud. So we're seeing a lot
of attempts um for people to contact us
and attempt some type of a fraud
transaction. And for us, that's
something that we're trying to catch
again through processes and having
another set of eyes on everything. Um,
there's a lot of PII or personally
identifiable information that we store
about our own customers as well as
consumers in general. So, we we are very
careful with how we store that and who
has access to it and the processes that
we have around all of those things.
You know, again, as I mentioned before,
it comes down to basics. You know,
making sure that you have things like
lease privilege. Only the people that
are meant to see something are able to
see it. And then at the end of the day,
you need to really be able to attack a
very specific set of people and people
that have high level of access in order
to gain that. Not that it cannot happen,
but your your line of attack or or
vector of attack is minimized by doing
that. And we let people do whatever they
need to do in their job without trying
to be um too honorous on how they how
they do it by giving them only access to
what they need. So to me that's that's
probably you know again it goes for
every organization but for us holding a
lot of financial data holding a lot of
personal data on on customers is is
something that we are very careful with
and and that's where we put in most of
our efforts.
>> Right. So it makes sense to me that a
lot of the um a lot of the focus and the
effort lies in being very clear on who
are these high privileged users and who
are the ones that if they fall victim
would have the biggest impact on the
organization and I would imagine that it
would be a subset of the entire
organization and not sure how large or
how small but at least a good amount
that you can then target and I guess
that would also be based on the
processes that you identify which are
critical to your organizations need,
right?
>> Yeah. So, so really, you know, for for
those types of users, we do a few
things. A, we try to raise their
awareness as much as possible. So, we do
different types of um discussions or
have different types of discussions with
them as well as different awareness
sessions with them. So, our developers
for example that write our code, we have
specific training for them and things
that they need to be concerned with. our
agents, the ones that talk to to
consumers, they have different types of
training as well and and also the
messaging to them would be different um
for high stake users and that's not just
your technical users that would the ones
that manage your systems but also
management level stuff. So our CEO or
CFO what have you need to have a raised
level of awareness around the risks
because ultimately that could instruct
somebody to do something that they
shouldn't be doing as well. So, so for
us, we we try to to provide different
types and different angles on the risks
to different people. Um, as well as have
the again the technical controls that
are relevant to them so that if there is
a situation where they fall victim to to
a scam, um, we're able to catch it as
early as possible as well as be able to
give them the proceeding awareness so
they're more careful when they deal with
certain things.
Now I I've been really curious about the
relationship that you know the employees
have with the security space. I know
that there is naturally a there's
naturally some sort of a tension and
conflict because as security
professional you put up you know really
really important guardrails and and
processes that help protect the
organizations but a lot of those
processes end up having some level of
impact on the user experience right and
uh and so and I'm I'm curious how do you
get employees to engage and the humans
to engage with security in a way that's
thoughtful, that's meaningful, because I
would imagine that part of what you
would want happen is for them to notify
when there's these types of attacks so
that you can learn from them, but also
engage with the content of how do I then
empower myself as an employee to become
a better protector of the organization.
>> Yeah, that's a good question. So, you
know, for one that listens to a lot of
security podcasts, I can tell you that
the one thing that gets repeated all the
time is don't be the department of no.
Like, do the be the department of yes,
but so that that's really what I try to
do. I say, "Okay, fine. That's a
business requirement. This is your own
personal need. You you have some urgency
around some of the things that you want
to do as well." So, we're not here to
stop you. We're here to support you. And
in order to support you, we need to be
able to also follow a certain process
that make sure that you're secure in
what you're doing. Um, at the end of the
day, it is your accountability, your
responsibility towards the organization
to make sure that you are not the
conduit to an attack and for that we are
here to help you achieve that. And as
soon as you put on put that message that
it's their accountability, their
responsibility, we're there to support
them. I think the story changes that
they typically would come to you for
help. They would come to you for advice,
which is what we try to to give. And and
and I always think, you know, I said I
said before that I have a few personal
stories about um things that have
happened in my close family circle. I
always think of those those situations.
I always think okay, what is my mom
going to do in that situation? What is
my sister going to do in such a
situation? What is my brother going to
do? and and ultimately it's the same
type of people, right? They they don't
listen to a 100 different security
podcasts every day. They just go around
there doing their work and achieving
their business objectives all the time.
So I I I don't want to be the bottleneck
and I don't want to be the the stumbling
block for them to achieve that. But at
the same time, I always want to be a
mirror um to them of the risks they're
posing to the organization by doing
certain things and the potential
solutions. Ultimately, it's it's
something that sometimes goes up to
management to make decisions on where
they see um the balance like whether
they prefer, you know, running faster
and putting security on the back burner
and vice versa. But I'm I'm always there
as a support as well as a monitor for
them rather than something that is there
to stop what they're doing. Makes a ton
of sense. Now if if you look at the last
few years, I my my perception what I'm
understanding is that is that fishing
and social engineering has always been a
top of- mind concern for for CESOS.
Would you agree that that's the case for
your end as well?
>> Yeah. Can can you just repeat that
question? I I'll lost track there for a
second.
>> Absolutely. The what what I've been
hearing that CISOs um have been treating
fishing and social engineering as a top
of- mind concern pretty much since ever.
>> Y
>> now that would to me constitute a a
space where there's a lot of innovation,
a lot of velocity, a lot of attempts to
continuously improve and move up. What
if you look at the just the last 5 years
for example, what have been the major
changes that you've observed in the
human security space and what what's
really caught your attention on the way
that we as security professionals are
dealing with this problem.
>> So a few few things have changed. Um I I
think one you know there's really two
things if you look at the last couple of
years again if you look at the quality
and volume of personalized fishing
attempts that has really increased over
the last two years again um through AI
it's really I feel a lot easier for
attackers to to utilize that so they can
write a a a specific fishing email to a
thousand people in the organization and
it would it would look perfect to to
everybody that read it. So that's one. I
I also think that people's awareness of
fishing and security concerns has has
grown very high over the last if you say
5 years and they see it on the news and
they hear it everywhere and they also
know people that have been attacked and
people that have lost money and people
that have had um their social network
accounts um hijacked and they they know
family members that have fallen victim.
So, so I think again, unfortunately,
we're in in a reality where those things
are no longer a one-off or something you
hear about in the news. Everybody knows
somebody that has been involved in some
sort of a a scam or an attack both at
home as well as at work. And and to me,
you know, looking thinking of fishing
specifically,
again, there's two mindsets about
fishing. There's people that say it
doesn't really help when you do fishing
campaigns, when you try to actually do
pretend attacks or what we call fishing
campaigns and and you're just making
people feel bad when they fall victim to
those fake attacks. I'm actually of the
opposite opinion. I think the more
people get practice in seeing what those
things look like and what the how easy
it is to actually fall victim to those
attacks, I think the I think it the
better we are for it because at the end
of the day, if you see something for the
first time, it looks legit. But if you
see them and we run them on monthly
basis where every month there'll be a
fishing campaign that's sent out to
everybody in the organization. Um, it a
lot of times I get people come to me and
say, "I've never been to a company that
runs so many fishing emails and I'm
always flattered when they say that
because they come to me with a smile."
They don't come complaining. They say,
"It's interesting. I've fallen victim
for this and that." And
if you wouldn't have shown it to me, I
would have not known that that's
fishing. So now,
>> see, it sounds like you've you've
managed to create a positive experience
for them having fallen because I I've
also heard CISOs tell me, "Listen, I'm
afraid to do these campaigns because if
my employees fall for them, they won't
trust me. They'll stop answering my
emails. They'll think I'm just attacking
them to put them down." How did you
create a positive experience for them
here?
>> So, two things. One, um, so the system
that we use has the ability, um, to do
two things. one you can report fishing.
So we have in in our email client we
have a report fishing button. So we
track that. So you know when people
actually provide um their own feedback
on something that looks like fishing we
we actually send them a thank you note
say thank you for reporting it. So that
actually creates a positive um positive
atmosphere. We also do it with top
management. with top management. Every
time somebody in our executive committee
submits those, we have right now it's
unfortunately a bit of a manual process,
but we go through, we investigate it, we
give them a report of what they've done,
who else was affected in organization,
how by reporting it, they were able to
actually um also save us from other
attacks to other people that um received
the same email. So that was one thing
that we did. But also when they do fall
victim for those um fake fishing
campaigns, I'm messaging to them and and
there's always like a splash screen that
comes up say, "Hey, first of all, um
this is a fake fishing campaign. Um this
is just there to teach you what that
looks like, what you should be aware of,
and here's some training that you can go
through and and see what the signs are
for for particular potential fishing."
So I think people do that and it it you
know again my my own personal experience
is that it's been really really
effective. We we really do see the down
downward um chart um from when we
started to today and and it's been very
effective from my perspective and again
I I don't I don't get a sense from
anyone that I talk to um that it's been
a negative experience. They always take
it as a positive and and um whenever
whenever they catch them they send me an
email say oh yeah you know you should
try better next time you didn't get it
this time so it's fun
>> I love it and so if if we're you know
there's going to be many entrepreneurs
listening to this and and thinking to
themselves wow this is such a huge
problem and I really want to innovate
here and and it seems like there's so
much untapped potential in helping
organizations because it it does not
feel like unless you feel that way to me
does not feel that there's a good enough
approach or comprehensive solution that
gives the the peace of mind that fishing
and social engineering is is in a is is
controlled in the context of an
organization. What you know what would
be the most incredible areas in your
eyes to innovate when it comes to human
security for young entrepreneurs? where
where will the next big aha moment and
the biggest pain points resolved when it
comes to human security?
>> So you know since co everybody's been
working you know in hybrid modes or even
completely remotely and to me that
really has opened up a whole lot of
opportunities is so to speak for
attackers. So, as I was saying before,
as an organization, just thinking about
how to protect your own organization and
your own communication channels is
probably not enough because people use
their own smartphones. They use their
own computers. Um, they're at home. Um,
they use their own Wi-Fi um for for
business purposes.
and and securing all of that to me is
the key because ultimately your your um
attack vectors have now extended
expanded exponentially. So if somebody
can come up with a way that is more more
you know private and can also secure not
just your enterprise
um assets but also the personal assets.
I think that would that will be a really
important innovation and and also making
people like I said before trust that the
organization is out there to protect
them and their family as well. To me,
that's that's key for gaining the trust
and also making sure that the
organization itself is not open to those
types of attacks that come from
unexpected areas, which is what we're
seeing now. Really, to me, that's again,
I think the enterprise
can do a lot of things to improve
security, but there's always going to be
that huge gap of people securing their
own personal environment and personal
assets.
>> Absolutely. And I think we do see um in
today's attacks the because of the spear
fishing nature and the narrative attacks
the ability to capture trust and form
relationships in the external world and
then have the employees bring them into
the internal world where the actual um
attack will be facilitated that that's a
big trend that's happening. H As a I
really want to thank you for joining me
today. I truly appreciate it. It was a
lot of fun. It went by way too fast and
I and I learned a lot. Uh, so continue
doing great work with Boltech and thank
you so much for joining me today.
>> No worries. Thank you, Michael.